docs/wallet-adapters.md, before:

# @tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters

`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` provides multiple wallet adapters to help developers connect to Tron wallet like [TronLink](https://www.tronlink.org/) with consistent API.

## Supported wallets

As `@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` exports adapter of each wallet , you can use this package, or use the individual wallet adapter you want.

-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters): Includes all the wallet adapters.
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-tronlink`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-tronlink): adapter for [TronLink](https://www.tronlink.org/).
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-walletconnect`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-walletconnect): adapter for [WalletConnect](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/).
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-ledger`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-ledger): adapter for [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/).

## Usage

### React

You can use `@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` in your component. Use `useMemo` to memorize the `adapter` to improve your web performance.

```tsx
import { TronLinkAdapter } from '@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters';

function App() {
    const [connectState, setConnectState] = useState(AdapterState.NotFound);
    const [account, setAccount] = useState('');
    const [netwok, setNetwork] = useState({});
    const [signedMessage, setSignedMessage] = useState('');

    const adapter = useMemo(() => new TronLinkAdapter(), []);
    useEffect(() => {
        setConnectState(adapter.state);
        setAccount(adapter.address!);

        adapter.on('connect', () => {
            setAccount(adapter.address!);
        });

        adapter.on('stateChanged', (state) => {
            setConnectState(state);
        });

        adapter.on('accountsChanged', (data) => {
            setAccount(data);
        });

        adapter.on('chainChanged', (data) => {
            setNetwork(data);
        });

        adapter.on('disconnect', () => {
            // when disconnect from wallet
        });
        return () => {
            // remove all listeners when components is destroyed
            adapter.removeAllListeners();
        };
    }, []);

    async function sign() {
        const res = await adapter!.signMessage('helloworld');
        setSignedMessage(res);
    }

    return (
        <div className="App">
            <div>connectState: {connectState}</div>
            <div>current address: {account}</div>
            <div>current network: {JSON.stringify(netwok)}</div>
            <button disabled={adapter.connected} onClick={() => adapter.connect()}>
                Connect to TronLink
            </button>
            <button onClick={sign}>sign message</button>
            <br />
            SignedMessage: {signedMessage}
        </div>
    );
}
```

### Vue

In Vue, as the `created/mounted` hook just can be executed once, you can init the adapter in `mounted` or `created` hook.

```js
// vue2.x
export default {
    created() {
        this.adapter = new TronLinkAdapter();
        this.adapter.on('connect', () => {
            // here you can do something
        });
    },
    beforeDestroy() {
        this.adapter.removeAllListeners();
    }
}

// vue3
export default {
    setup() {
        onMounted(function() {
            const adapter = new TronLinkAdapter();
            adapter.on('connect', () => {
                // here you can do something
            });
        });
        onBeforeUnmount(function() {
            // remove all listeners when components is destroyed
            adapter.removeAllListeners();
        });
        return {};
    }
}
```

## API Reference

### Adapter

The `Adapter` class defines the common interface for all adapters of specified wallets.

#### Constructor

-   `constructor(config)`: adapter constructor method, an optional config is valid. For detailed config type, refer to the following [adapter section](#tronlinkadapter).

#### Properties

-   `name`: The name of the adapter.
-   `url`: The website of the adapter's wallet.
-   `icon`: The icon of the adapter's wallet.
-   `state`: The adapter's state, which includes three value:
    -   `Loading`: When adapter is checking if the wallet is available or not.
    -   `NotFound`: The wallet is not detected in current browser.
    -   `Disconnected`: The wallet is detected in current browser but the adapter has not connected to wallet yet.
    -   `Connected`: The adapter is connected to wallet.
-   `address`: The address of current account when the adapter is connected.
-   `connecting`: Whether the adapter is trying to connect to the wallet.
-   `connected`: Whether the adapter is connected to the wallet.

#### Methods

-   `connect(): Promise<void>`: connect to the wallet.
-   `disconnect(): Promise<void>`: disconnect to the wallet.
-   `signMessage(message, privateKey?): Promise<string>`: sign a string, return the signature result. An optional `privateKey` can be provided.
-   `signTransaction(transaction, privateKey?)`: sign a transaction, return the signature result of the transaction. An optional `privateKey` can be provided.
-   `multiSign(transaction, privateKey: string | null, permissionId?)`: sign a multi-sign transaction.
    -   If `privateKey` is not `null`, will use the privateKey to sign rather than TronLink.
    -   If `permissionId` is not provided, will use `0`(OwnerPerssion) as default.
    -   Please refer to [here](https://developers.tron.network/docs/multi-signature) for more about Multi-Sign,
-   `switchChain(chainId: string): Promise<void>;`: request wallet to switch chain by `chainId`.

#### Events

`Adapter` extends the `EventEmitter` class in `eventemitter3` package. So you can listen to the events by `adapter.on('connect', function() {})`.

Events are as follows:

-   `connect(address)`: Emit when adapter is connected to the wallet. The parameter is the address of current account.
-   `disconnect()`: Emit when adapter is disconnected to the wallet.
-   `stateChanged(state: AdapteraState)`: Emit when adapter's state is changed. The parameter is the state of adapter:
    ```typescript
    enum AdapterState {
        NotFound = 'NotFound',
        Disconnect = 'Disconnected',
        Connected = 'Connected',
    }
    ```
-   `accountsChanged(address: string)`: Emit when users change the current selected account in wallet. The parameter is the address of new account.
-   `chainChanged(chainInfo: ChainInfo)`: Emit when users change the current selected chain in wallet. The parameter is the new network config：
    ```typescript
    interface ChainInfo {
        chainId: string;
    }
    ```
-   `error(ConnectionError)`: Emit when there are some errors when call the adapter's method. The [ConnectionError Types] is defined as follows.

### ConnectionError

`ConnectionError` is a superclass which defines the error when using adapter.
All error types are extended from this class.
Developers can check the error type according to the error instance.

```typescript
try {
    // do something here
} catch (error: ConnectionError) {
    if (error instanceof WalletNotFoundError) {
        console.log('Wallet is not found');
    }
}
```

All errors are as follows:

-   `WalletNotFoundError`: Occurs when wallet is not installed.
-   `WalletNotSelectedError`: Occurs when connect but there is no selected wallet.
-   `WalletDisconnectedError`: Occurs when wallet is disconnected. Used by some wallets which won't connect automatically when call `signMessage()` or `signTransaction()`.
-   `WalletConnectionError`: Occurs when try to connect a wallet.
-   `WalletDisconnectionError`: Occurs when try to disconnect a wallet.
-   `WalletSignMessageError`: Occurs when call `signMessage()`.
-   `WalletSignTransactionError`: Occurs when call `signTransaction()`.

<h3 id="tronlinkadapter">TronLinkAdapter</h3>

-   `Constructor(config: TronLinkAdapterConfig)`
    ```typescript
    interface TronLinkAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * The icon of your dapp. Used when open TronLink app in mobile device browsers.
         */
        dappIcon?: string;
        /**
         * The name of your dapp. Used when open TronLink app in mobile device browsers.
         */
        dappName?: string;
    }
    ```
-   **Don't support `disconnect` by DApp**. As TronLinkAdapter doesn't support disconnect by DApp website, call `adapter.disconnect()` won't disconnect from TronLink extension really.
-   **Auto open TronLink app in mobile browser**. If developers call `connect()` method in mobile browser, it will open DApp in TronLink app to get tronlink wallet.

### WalletConnectAdapter

-   `Constructor(config: WalletConnectAdapterConfig)`
    ```typescript
    interface WalletConnectAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * Network to use, one of Mainnet, Shasta, Nile
         * Default: Nile
         */
        network: 'Mainnet' | 'Shasta' | 'Nile';
        /**
         * Options passed to WalletConnect client
         */
        options: {
            projectId: '<YOUR PROJECT ID>';
            // optional parameters
            relayUrl: '<YOUR RELAY URL>';
            metadata: {
                name: 'Wallet name';
                description: 'A short description for your wallet';
                url: "<YOUR WALLET'S URL>";
                icons: ["<URL TO WALLET'S LOGO/ICON>"];
            };
        };
    }
    ```
    More detail about WalletConnect client options please refer to the [WalletConnect document](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/javascript/sign/dapp-usage).
-   `multiSign()` is not supported yet.

### LedgerAdapter

-   `Constructor(config: LedgerAdapterConfig)`

    ```typescript
    interface LedgerAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * Initial total accounts to get once connection is created, default is 1
         */
        accountNumber?: number;

        /**
         * Hook function to call before connecting to ledger and geting accounts.
         * By default, a modal will popup to reminder user to prepare the ledger and enter Tron app.
         * You can specify a function to disable this modal.
         */
        beforeConnect?: () => Promise<unknown> | unknown;

        /**
         * Hook function to call after connecting to ledger and geting initial accounts.
         * The function should return the selected account including the index of account.
         * Following operations such as `signMessage` will use the selected account.
         */
        selectAccount?: (params: { accounts: Account[]; ledgerUtils: LedgerUtils }) => Promise<Account>;

        /**
         * Function to get derivate BIP44 path by index.
         * Default is `44'/195'/${index}'/0/0`
         */
        getDerivationPath?: (index: number) => string;
    }
    interface Account {
        /**
         * The index to get BIP44 path.
         */
        index: number;
        /**
         * The BIP44 path to derivate address.
         */
        path: string;
        /**
         * The derivated address.
         */
        address: string;
    }
    interface LedgerUtils {
        /**
         * Get accounts from ledger by index. `from` is included and `to` is excluded.
         * User can use the function to load more accounts.
         */
        getAccounts: (from: number, to: number) => Promise<Account[]>;
        /**
         * Request to get an address with specified index using getDerivationPath(index) to get BIP44 path.
         * If `display` is true, will request user to approve on ledger.
         * The promise will resove if user approve and reject if user cancel the operation.
         */
        getAddress: (index: number, display: boolean) => Promise<{ publicKey: string; address: string }>;
    }
    ```

-   Property: `ledgerUtils`
    `ledgerUtils` on LedgerAdapter is used to get useful functions to interact with Ledger directly. `ledgerUtils` is defined as last section.

    -   `getAccounts(from: number, to: number)` is a wrapped function to get multiple accounts by index range from ledger.
        For example:

        ```typescript
        const adapter = new LedgerAdapter();
        // get 5 accounts from ledger
        const accounts = await adapter.ledgerUtils.getAcccounts(0, 5);
        // [{ address: string, index: 0, path: "44'/195'/0'/0/0" }, ...]
        ```

    -   `getAddress: (index: number, display: boolean)` is a raw function to request an address from ledger.
        If `display` is true, will request user to approve on ledger.
        For example, following code will request user approve on Ledger to confirm to connect their ledger.

        ```typescript
        const adapter = new LedgerAdapter();
        const result = await adapter.ledgerUtils.getAddress(0, true);
        // { address: 'some address', publicKey: 'publicKey for address' }
        ```

-   `multiSign()` is not supported yet.

Commit message:

feat: add new config and readyStateChanged event
add config to disable open wallet url
add config to disable open TronLink app on mobile
add config to support customizing check timeout
add readyStateChanged event and readyState to indicate wallet readyState: Loading,Found,NotFound
remove accountsChanged event when page load and tronlink is connected
add preAddress argument in accountsChanged event

docs/wallet-adapters.md, after:

# @tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters

`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` provides multiple wallet adapters to help developers connect to Tron wallet like [TronLink](https://www.tronlink.org/) with consistent API.

## Supported wallets

As `@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` exports adapter of each wallet , you can use this package, or use the individual wallet adapter you want.

-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters): Includes all the wallet adapters.
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-tronlink`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-tronlink): adapter for [TronLink](https://www.tronlink.org/).
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-walletconnect`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-walletconnect): adapter for [WalletConnect](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/).
-   [`@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-ledger`](https://npmjs.com/package/@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapter-ledger): adapter for [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/).

## Usage

### React

You can use `@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters` in your component. Use `useMemo` to memorize the `adapter` to improve your web performance.

```tsx
import { TronLinkAdapter } from '@tronweb3/tronwallet-adapters';

function App() {
    const [connectState, setConnectState] = useState(AdapterState.NotFound);
    const [account, setAccount] = useState('');
    const [netwok, setNetwork] = useState({});
    const [signedMessage, setSignedMessage] = useState('');

    const adapter = useMemo(() => new TronLinkAdapter(), []);
    useEffect(() => {
        setConnectState(adapter.state);
        setAccount(adapter.address!);

        adapter.on('connect', () => {
            setAccount(adapter.address!);
        });

        adapter.on('stateChanged', (state) => {
            setConnectState(state);
        });

        adapter.on('accountsChanged', (data) => {
            setAccount(data);
        });

        adapter.on('chainChanged', (data) => {
            setNetwork(data);
        });

        adapter.on('disconnect', () => {
            // when disconnect from wallet
        });
        return () => {
            // remove all listeners when components is destroyed
            adapter.removeAllListeners();
        };
    }, []);

    async function sign() {
        const res = await adapter!.signMessage('helloworld');
        setSignedMessage(res);
    }

    return (
        <div className="App">
            <div>connectState: {connectState}</div>
            <div>current address: {account}</div>
            <div>current network: {JSON.stringify(netwok)}</div>
            <button disabled={adapter.connected} onClick={() => adapter.connect()}>
                Connect to TronLink
            </button>
            <button onClick={sign}>sign message</button>
            <br />
            SignedMessage: {signedMessage}
        </div>
    );
}
```

### Vue

In Vue, as the `created/mounted` hook just can be executed once, you can init the adapter in `mounted` or `created` hook.

```js
// vue2.x
export default {
    created() {
        this.adapter = new TronLinkAdapter();
        this.adapter.on('connect', () => {
            // here you can do something
        });
    },
    beforeDestroy() {
        this.adapter.removeAllListeners();
    }
}

// vue3
export default {
    setup() {
        onMounted(function() {
            const adapter = new TronLinkAdapter();
            adapter.on('connect', () => {
                // here you can do something
            });
        });
        onBeforeUnmount(function() {
            // remove all listeners when components is destroyed
            adapter.removeAllListeners();
        });
        return {};
    }
}
```

## API Reference

### Adapter

The `Adapter` class defines the common interface for all adapters of specified wallets.

#### Constructor

-   `constructor(config)`: adapter constructor method, an optional config is valid. For detailed config type, refer to the following [adapter section](#tronlinkadapter).

#### Properties

-   `name`: The name of the adapter.
-   `url`: The website of the adapter's wallet.
-   `icon`: The icon of the adapter's wallet.
-   `state`: The adapter's state, which includes three value:
    -   `Loading`: When adapter is checking if the wallet is available or not.
    -   `NotFound`: The wallet is not detected in current browser.
    -   `Disconnected`: The wallet is detected in current browser but the adapter has not connected to wallet yet.
    -   `Connected`: The adapter is connected to wallet.
-   `address`: The address of current account when the adapter is connected.
-   `connecting`: Whether the adapter is trying to connect to the wallet.
-   `connected`: Whether the adapter is connected to the wallet.

#### Methods

-   `connect(): Promise<void>`: connect to the wallet.
-   `disconnect(): Promise<void>`: disconnect to the wallet.
-   `signMessage(message, privateKey?): Promise<string>`: sign a string, return the signature result. An optional `privateKey` can be provided.
-   `signTransaction(transaction, privateKey?)`: sign a transaction, return the signature result of the transaction. An optional `privateKey` can be provided.
-   `multiSign(transaction, privateKey: string | null, permissionId?)`: sign a multi-sign transaction.
    -   If `privateKey` is not `null`, will use the privateKey to sign rather than TronLink.
    -   If `permissionId` is not provided, will use `0`(OwnerPerssion) as default.
    -   Please refer to [here](https://developers.tron.network/docs/multi-signature) for more about Multi-Sign,
-   `switchChain(chainId: string): Promise<void>;`: request wallet to switch chain by `chainId`.

#### Events

`Adapter` extends the `EventEmitter` class in `eventemitter3` package. So you can listen to the events by `adapter.on('connect', function() {})`.

Events are as follows:

-   `connect(address)`: This event indicates that DApp is connected to the wallet automatically or with user's action. Emit with current address as parameter when

    -   page first load and the wallet is connected automatically;
    -   user call `adapter.connect()` successfully.

    If you want to monitor every state change, `stateChanged` may work fine.

-   `disconnect()`: Emit when user call `adapter.disconnect()` successfully.
-   `stateChanged(state: AdapteraState)`: Emit when adapter's state is changed. The parameter is the state of adapter:
    ```typescript
    enum AdapterState {
        Loading = 'Loading',
        NotFound = 'NotFound',
        Disconnect = 'Disconnected',
        Connected = 'Connected',
    }
    ```
-   `accountsChanged(address: string)`: Emit when users change the current selected account in wallet. The parameter is the address of new account.
-   `chainChanged(chainInfo: ChainInfo)`: Emit when users change the current selected chain in wallet. The parameter is the new network config：
    ```typescript
    interface ChainInfo {
        chainId: string;
    }
    ```
-   `error(ConnectionError)`: Emit when there are some errors when call the adapter's method. The [ConnectionError Types] is defined as follows.

### ConnectionError

`ConnectionError` is a superclass which defines the error when using adapter.
All error types are extended from this class.
Developers can check the error type according to the error instance.

```typescript
try {
    // do something here
} catch (error: ConnectionError) {
    if (error instanceof WalletNotFoundError) {
        console.log('Wallet is not found');
    }
}
```

All errors are as follows:

-   `WalletNotFoundError`: Occurs when wallet is not installed.
-   `WalletNotSelectedError`: Occurs when connect but there is no selected wallet.
-   `WalletDisconnectedError`: Occurs when wallet is disconnected. Used by some wallets which won't connect automatically when call `signMessage()` or `signTransaction()`.
-   `WalletConnectionError`: Occurs when try to connect a wallet.
-   `WalletDisconnectionError`: Occurs when try to disconnect a wallet.
-   `WalletSignMessageError`: Occurs when call `signMessage()`.
-   `WalletSignTransactionError`: Occurs when call `signTransaction()`.

<h3 id="tronlinkadapter">TronLinkAdapter</h3>

-   `Constructor(config: TronLinkAdapterConfig)`
    ```typescript
    interface TronLinkAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * The icon of your dapp. Used when open TronLink app in mobile device browsers.
         */
        dappIcon?: string;
        /**
         * The name of your dapp. Used when open TronLink app in mobile device browsers.
         */
        dappName?: string;
    }
    ```
-   **Don't support `disconnect` by DApp**. As TronLinkAdapter doesn't support disconnect by DApp website, call `adapter.disconnect()` won't disconnect from TronLink extension really.
-   **Auto open TronLink app in mobile browser**. If developers call `connect()` method in mobile browser, it will open DApp in TronLink app to get tronlink wallet.

### WalletConnectAdapter

-   `Constructor(config: WalletConnectAdapterConfig)`
    ```typescript
    interface WalletConnectAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * Network to use, one of Mainnet, Shasta, Nile
         * Default: Nile
         */
        network: 'Mainnet' | 'Shasta' | 'Nile';
        /**
         * Options passed to WalletConnect client
         */
        options: {
            projectId: '<YOUR PROJECT ID>';
            // optional parameters
            relayUrl: '<YOUR RELAY URL>';
            metadata: {
                name: 'Wallet name';
                description: 'A short description for your wallet';
                url: "<YOUR WALLET'S URL>";
                icons: ["<URL TO WALLET'S LOGO/ICON>"];
            };
        };
    }
    ```
    More detail about WalletConnect client options please refer to the [WalletConnect document](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/javascript/sign/dapp-usage).
-   `multiSign()` is not supported yet.

### LedgerAdapter

-   `Constructor(config: LedgerAdapterConfig)`

    ```typescript
    interface LedgerAdapterConfig {
        /**
         * Initial total accounts to get once connection is created, default is 1
         */
        accountNumber?: number;

        /**
         * Hook function to call before connecting to ledger and geting accounts.
         * By default, a modal will popup to reminder user to prepare the ledger and enter Tron app.
         * You can specify a function to disable this modal.
         */
        beforeConnect?: () => Promise<unknown> | unknown;

        /**
         * Hook function to call after connecting to ledger and geting initial accounts.
         * The function should return the selected account including the index of account.
         * Following operations such as `signMessage` will use the selected account.
         */
        selectAccount?: (params: { accounts: Account[]; ledgerUtils: LedgerUtils }) => Promise<Account>;

        /**
         * Function to get derivate BIP44 path by index.
         * Default is `44'/195'/${index}'/0/0`
         */
        getDerivationPath?: (index: number) => string;
    }
    interface Account {
        /**
         * The index to get BIP44 path.
         */
        index: number;
        /**
         * The BIP44 path to derivate address.
         */
        path: string;
        /**
         * The derivated address.
         */
        address: string;
    }
    interface LedgerUtils {
        /**
         * Get accounts from ledger by index. `from` is included and `to` is excluded.
         * User can use the function to load more accounts.
         */
        getAccounts: (from: number, to: number) => Promise<Account[]>;
        /**
         * Request to get an address with specified index using getDerivationPath(index) to get BIP44 path.
         * If `display` is true, will request user to approve on ledger.
         * The promise will resove if user approve and reject if user cancel the operation.
         */
        getAddress: (index: number, display: boolean) => Promise<{ publicKey: string; address: string }>;
    }
    ```

-   Property: `ledgerUtils`
    `ledgerUtils` on LedgerAdapter is used to get useful functions to interact with Ledger directly. `ledgerUtils` is defined as last section.

    -   `getAccounts(from: number, to: number)` is a wrapped function to get multiple accounts by index range from ledger.
        For example:

        ```typescript
        const adapter = new LedgerAdapter();
        // get 5 accounts from ledger
        const accounts = await adapter.ledgerUtils.getAcccounts(0, 5);
        // [{ address: string, index: 0, path: "44'/195'/0'/0/0" }, ...]
        ```

    -   `getAddress: (index: number, display: boolean)` is a raw function to request an address from ledger.
        If `display` is true, will request user to approve on ledger.
        For example, following code will request user approve on Ledger to confirm to connect their ledger.

        ```typescript
        const adapter = new LedgerAdapter();
        const result = await adapter.ledgerUtils.getAddress(0, true);
        // { address: 'some address', publicKey: 'publicKey for address' }
        ```

-   `multiSign()` is not supported yet.
